Pendo comparison (#5746)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-pendo.md

---
date: 2023-04-14
title: PostHog vs Pendo
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-mixpanel/posthog-vs-mixpanel.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - joe-martin
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
    - Guides
---

> In this article we’ll explore the crucial differences and similarities between Pendo (specifically, Pendo Engage) and PostHog. We’ll cover topics such as:

Reviewer: Can add something similar to this at the start?

![Screenshot 2023-04-17 at 11 41 16](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92976667/232461726-959ee79f-6672-469a-8814-f1795cba1a67.png)

Reason being, Google loves to have an answer right at the top + it'll give us a featured snippet like this:

![Screenshot 2023-04-17 at 11 43 11](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92976667/232461923-22e380b9-537e-445c-85a4-cf9b806989d9.png)

Author: Done

- Pendo and PostHog’s [core features](#core-features) and [focus](#who-are-pendo-and-posthog-useful-for)
- [Product analytics](#product-analytics) and [in-app messaging](#in-app-messages-and-prompts) features in detail
- [Integrations](#apps-and-integrations) and [data pipelines](#data-pipelines)
- [Libraries](#library-support), [tracking differences and SDKs](#sdks-and-tracking)
- [Privacy, security and regulatory compliance](#compliance-and-security)
- [Pricing details](#how-much-does-pendo-cost), [free trials](#do-pendo-and-posthog-offer-free-trials) and other [frequently asked questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

However, if you’re in a rush and want to know the short version then we can keep it simple off the bat by explaining how PostHog and Pendo differ at a high level. 

## Differences between PostHog and Pendo

### 1. PostHog is an all-in one platform

> PostHog solves this problem by bringing all the tools engineers need to measure success, run experiments, and more, into one platform. It’s a complete, all-in-one product OS, with robust analytics, feature flagging, experimentation, session capturing, and data warehouse features. Pendo, on the other hand, is a more limited product which doesn’t offer many of these features and requires you to adopt other platforms, such as HotJar or LaunchDarly, in order to get comparable functionality to PostHog.

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog brings all the tools engineers need to measure success, run experiments, and more, into one platform. It’s a complete, all-in-one product OS, with robust analytics, feature flagging, experimentation, session capturing, and data warehouse features. Pendo, on the other hand, is a more limited product which doesn’t offer many of these features and requires you to adopt other platforms, such as HotJar or LaunchDarly, in order to get comparable functionality to PostHog.
```

            <td><strong>Pendo</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
            <tr>
            <td><strong>Event tracking</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Track manually instrumented events</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Autocapture</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Automatically track events without instrumentation</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Combined events (actions)</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Track related events as a single trackable action or behavior</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Reverse proxy available</strong></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td><strong>Send events from your own domain</strong></td>
```

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
```

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>

Author: It's correct to my knowledge, but if you can find something feel free to update it.

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>

Reviewer: Ok, I found their solution: https://support.pendo.io/hc/en-us/articles/360043539891-CNAME-for-Pendo-Insights-and-Guidance#configuration-0-0

The TL;DR is they have a different solution, or at least it _sounds_ different. I'll change it to something more generic

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>

>             <td>Send events from your own domain to capture more data</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Ensure ad blockers don't block data capture</td>
```

1. Pendo enables users to add in tool-tips and in-app messages. It includes some product analytics tools.

2. PostHog is an all-in-one product improvement platform that includes the ability to add in-app messages, as well as analytics, feature flags, session replays and more.

Now it's time for the long answer...

In this article we’ll explore the crucial differences and similarities between Pendo (specifically, Pendo Engage) and PostHog. We’ll cover topics such as:

- Pendo and PostHog’s [core features](#core-features)
- [Product analytics](#product-analytics) and [in-app messaging](#in-app-messages-and-prompts) features in detail
- [Integrations](#apps-and-integrations) and [data pipelines](#data-pipelines)
- [Libraries](#library-support), [tracking differences and SDKs](#sdks-and-tracking)
- [Privacy, security and regulatory compliance](#compliance-and-security)
- [Pricing details](#how-much-does-pendo-cost), [free trials](#do-pendo-and-posthog-offer-free-trials) and other [frequently asked questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. PostHog is an all-in one platform

> PostHog brings all the tools engineers need to measure success, run experiments, and more, into one platform. It’s a complete, all-in-one product OS, with robust analytics, feature flagging, A/B testing, and session capturing features. Pendo, on the other hand, is a more limited, and requires you to adopt other platforms, such as HotJar or LaunchDarkly, to get comparable functionality to PostHog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog brings all the tools engineers need to measure success, run experiments, and more, into one platform. It’s a complete, all-in-one product OS, with robust analytics, feature flagging, A/B testing, and session capturing features. Pendo, on the other hand, is a more limited, and requires you to adopt other platforms, such as Hotjar or LaunchDarkly, to get comparable functionality to PostHog.
```

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

> We built PostHog to support technically-savvy product managers and engineers — especially [engineers with a product focus in their role](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer). As such, PostHog includes many powerful features that aren’t commonly available in tools like Pendo, which are built for more general audiences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We built PostHog to support technically-savvy product managers and engineers — especially [engineers with a product focus in their role](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer). As such, PostHog includes many powerful features that aren’t available in tools like Pendo, which are built for more general audiences.
```

### 3. PostHog is open source

> Because we build for engineers first, we're also open source. You can check out [PostHog’s source code](https://github.com/PostHog), [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) or [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product, and even [give feedback or interact with the team via GitHub](https://github.com/PostHog).Transparency, including transparent pricing, is one of our core values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because we build for engineers first, we're also open source. You can check out [PostHog’s source code](https://github.com/PostHog), [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) or [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product, and even [give feedback or interact with the team via GitHub](https://github.com/PostHog). Transparency, including transparent pricing, is one of our core values.
```

<ArrayCTA />

## Comparing PostHog and Pendo
**Pendo** has four pricing tiers — Free, Starter, Growth, and Portfolio – for its main product, Pendo Engage. Pendo's Starter plan is limited to 2,000 active users a minimum of $8,000 per year.

**PostHog** has three pricing plans — Free, Scale, and Enterprise:

- The Free plan includes everything early-stage companies need with a generous usage limit – 1 million events and 15k recordings per month.

> - The Scale plan unlocks advanced features, like group analytics and A/B testing. Your first 1 million events and 15k recordings each month are free – you pay for what you use thereafter. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The Scale plan unlocks advanced features, like group analytics and A/B testing. Your first 1 million events and 15k recordings each month are still free – you pay for what you use thereafter. 
```

> - The Enterprise plan unlocks extra security, compliance and permissioning features in order to meet the needs of large businesses. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The Enterprise plan unlocks extra security, compliance, and permissioning features to meet the needs of large businesses. 
```

> **Are you an early-stage startup?** Get $50k in PostHog credit, and more, by joining [our PostHog for Startups program](/startups)!

> In order to compare PostHog and Pendo simply and easily, we’ll focus on comparing Pendo Engage to PostHog and include features from all pricing tiers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make a clean comparison between PostHog and Pendo, we’ll focus on comparing Pendo Engage to PostHog and include features from all pricing tiers.
```

            <td>Track events and conversion; analyze user behavior</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Session replays</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Watch real users use your product; diagnose bugs</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Feature flags</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Roll out features safely; toggle features for cohorts or individuals</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>A/B testing</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Test changes and analyze impact</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>In-app prompts and messages</strong></td>

>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✔</span></td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
```

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Send messages to users in your app</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Apps/Integrations</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Push and pull data to other destinations</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Open source</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Build your own apps and contribute code</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> - **Session replays:** [Session replays](/session-replay) in PostHog recreate exactly what real users see and how they use your product, and enable you to debug problems using built-in console logs and network performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Session replays:** [Session replays](/session-replay) in PostHog recreate exactly what real users see and how they use your product. They also enable you to debug problems using built-in console logs and network performance.
```

- **Feature flags:** PostHog includes [multivariate feature flags](/feature-flags) that support JSON payloads, enabling you to push real-time changes to your product without redeploying. Teams can use feature flags to offer different features or UI choices to users, to trigger in-app messages, and more.

> - **A/B testing:** In PostHog, you can use the [experimentation suite](/ab-testing) to create multivariate tests within your product, such as showing some users a different page layout to others. Over time, you can build an understanding of which page performs better, correlate results with other events and deploy a final version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **A/B testing:** In PostHog, you can use the [experimentation suite](/ab-testing) to create multivariate tests within your product, such as showing some users a different page layout to others. Over time, you can build an understanding of which page performs better, correlate results with other events, and deploy a final version.
```

### Product Analytics

PostHog and Pendo are ultimately built for different types of users. While PostHog is designed with engineers and technical users in mind, Pendo is intended more for marketers and UX designers. 

> This difference is reflected in all levels of the product, but especially in product analytics, where many advanced features which are lacking in Pendo, are available in PostHog. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This difference is reflected in all levels of the product, but especially in product analytics. Many advanced features which are lacking in Pendo, are available in PostHog. 
```

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Suggested events and properties that lead to success or failure</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Group analytics</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Understand how organizations use your product</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Formulas</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Use custom formulas to calculate unique insights</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>SQL access</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Write your own queries in SQL</td>

>         </tr>

Reviewer 2: Is there anything Pendo has that we don't? Maybe retro active analytics?

Reviewer 2: Nvm retroactive analytics is their name for autocapture 🤔 https://www.pendo.io/pendo-blog/future-retro-one-early-product-decision-made-difference-pendo/

    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

- **Correlation analysis:** [Correlation analysis](/product-analytics) automatically highlights significant linking properties or events relevant to an insight. For example, you can find if users who complete a funnel are likely to be from a certain location, or have completed another event. In PostHog, correlation analysis is a standard part of analytics. 

- **Formulas:** Formulas in PostHog enable you to create custom insights using your data. A simple example of a formula would be an equation to figure out a ratio or percentage (e.g. the percentage of user who completed two different events), though advanced formulas can use more elaborate functions, such as `COS` and `SIN`.

- **SQL access:** While both PostHog and Pendo have ready-made insights and visualization types, only PostHog gives you unlimited access to your data by [writing your own SQL queries](/docs/product-analytics/hogql). This is ideal for data scientists, product managers, and engineers who want to perform advanced analysis on user data.

> <h4 className="mb-0">Discover what's possible with <span className="text-red">product analytics</span></h4>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h4 className="mb-0">Discover what's possible with <span className="text-blue">product analytics</span></h4>
```
It is very jarring that this isn't a link but wherever we use `text-red `it is a link. Blue is the only other colour we don't use.

<TutorialsSlider slugs={[
  "/tutorials/churn-rate",
  "/tutorials/funnels",
  "/tutorials/api-get-insights-persons",
  "/tutorials/feature-retention",
  "/tutorials/next-steps-after-installing"
]} />

### In-app messages and prompts
Pendo is all about creating in-app messages, prompts, tooltips, measuring their impact on adoption and retention, and collecting feedback. But these aren't unique features – PostHog also supports in-app messages and interactive pop-ups through the use of [feature flag payloads](/docs/feature-flags/payloads) and [site apps](/tutorials/build-site-app).

The main difference is, because Pendo is designed for less technical users, it offers an interface that is simpler, but less powerful. You can easily create tooltips, announcement pop-ups and polls in Pendo, but not other types of prompt such as a Calendly integration. 

> PostHog has ready-made apps for displaying pop-ups and tooltips, but the true power is in the ability to [build custom solutions](/tutorials/build-site-app).

Reviewer 2: To be clear, the popups and tool tips app isn't entirely a site app. It is extra code added to the app + a feature flag. It could theoretically be a site app, but we don't really have a simple to set up popup/tooltip site app.

Below are some of the most popular ready-made apps which facilitate in-app messages in PostHog:

- [Feedback Widget](/apps/feedback-widget): Displays a prompt with a text input, enabling users to write feedback messages that you can optionally sync to Slack, Zendesk or other tools using Zapier. 

- [Notification Bar](/apps/notification-bar): Displays a customizable banner in your product, suitable for alerting users to important messages — like discounts, outages, or announcements.

- [User Interviewer](/apps/user-interviews): Displays a prompt to users that match a filter or cohort, inviting them to schedule an online interview. Syncs with Calendly to make scheduling easy. 

- [Pineapple Mode](/apps/pineapple-mode): Rains pineapples all over your product, advancing the sense of chaos and entropy in the world. 🍍

> <h4 className="mb-0">Discover what's possible with <span className="text-red">PostHog apps</span></h4>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h4 className="mb-0">Discover what's possible with <span className="text-blue">PostHog apps</span></h4>
```

<TutorialsSlider slugs={[
  "/tutorials/build-site-app",
  "/tutorials/feedback-interviews-site-apps",
  "/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app",

>   "/tutorials/how-to-connect-discord-to-posthog-with-zapier"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "/tutorials/how-to-connect-discord-to-posthog-with-zapier",
  "/tutorials/react-popups"
```

## Compliance and security

Regulatory compliance can be a critical need for many teams, especially if they operate in financial or healthcare industries. Regulations such as HIPPA and GDPR can require teams to store data in certain locations, or to protect data in certain ways. 

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Pendo</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>GDPR ready</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>EU hosting available</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        </tr>

>         <tr>
>             <td><strong>US hosting available</strong></td>
>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
>             <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
>         </tr>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I think this is assumed and unnecessary

Autocapture is preferred by many users because it's faster to setup, but some argue that it creates too much noise or cost to be useful. We disagree, and it’s why PostHog gives you your first million events for free, every month — so you can capture events without worrying about these issues. [It’s something we feel quite strongly about](/blog/is-autocapture-still-bad).

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Pendo</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
            <tr>
            <td><strong>Event tracking</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Track manually instrumented events</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Autocapture</strong></td>

Reviewer: Good spot, thanks. @joethreepwood Do you want to revise some of the copy because of this as well?

>             <td><strong>Autocapture</strong></td>

Author: No particularly. I want to focus on supporting our language and benefits. Happy if we just put a tick in here and leave it at that.

>             <td><strong>Autocapture</strong></td>

Reviewer: Sorry, I meant the intro to this section where we say "Pendo and PostHog both support a variety of tracking and implementation options to get your data into their platform. However, while both platforms enable you to create tracked events manually, only PostHog offers autocapture to help you get started quickly."

My bad, should have been clearer.

>             <td><strong>Autocapture</strong></td>

Author: Gotcha. Will update that.

In order to compare PostHog and Pendo simply and easily, we’ll focus on comparing Pendo Engage to PostHog and include features from all pricing tiers. In this way, you can clearly see how Pendo Engage stacks up against PostHog and defer pricing decisions until you’ve identified the best tool for the job. 

## Who are these tools useful for?
One of the biggest differences between PostHog and Pendo is that they're fundamentally built for different types of users, with different needs. 

**Pendo** is designed primarily for marketers and UX specialists. It's key features are the ability to create in-app prompts and messages, such as tooltips, without technical know-how. Pendo enables these users to follow the performance of such messages and to monitor broad feature adoption and usage. 

**PostHog** is built primarily with engineers, product managers and other technical users in mind. It also offers the ability to create in-app prompts and messages, but also offers a number of other tools which are useful for these sort of teams, such as feature flags and session recording. 

> This difference is ultimately reflected in many of the features both platforms offer, and how they are designed. PostHog's focus on breadth and supporting engineers in creating better products, for example, is reflected in it's core features. 

Author: I'll just shunt this section to the FAQ. Turning it into a boxout won't make it take up less space.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Watch real users use your product; diagnose bugs</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Feature flags</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Roll out features safely; toggle features for cohorts or individuals</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>A/B testing</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Test changes and analyze impact</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>In-app prompts and messages</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>

>             <td>Build your own apps and contribute code</td>

Author: ```suggestion
            <td>Send messages to users in your app</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Apps/Integrations</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Push and pull data to other destinations</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Open source</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Build your own apps and contribute code</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

- **[Session replays](/session-replay):** Session replays in PostHog, otherwise known as session recording, enable you to capture video recordings of a user experience. Additionally, in PostHog, you can view built-in console logs, and network performance. These features are especially useful for diagnosing bug reports, or building user empathy. Pendo does not offer any session replay feature, forcing users to turn to tools such as HotJar. 

> - **[Feature flags](/feature-flags):** PostHog offers multivariate feature flags which support JSON payloads, enabling you to push real-time changes to a product without needing to redeploy. Teams can use feature flags to offer different features or UI choices to users, to trigger in-app messages, and more. Pendo, on the other hand, does not support any feature flag functionality and users will need to adopt an alternative feature flagging tool.

Reviewer: Up for debate, but constantly repeating "Pendo doesn't do X" feels a bit excessive. It's clear in the table, so don't think we need to repeat it all the time.

- **[A/B testing](/ab-testing):** In PostHog, you can use the experimentation suite to create multivariate tests within your product, such as showing some users a different page layout to others. Over time, you can build an understanding of which page performs better, correlate results with other events and deploy a final version. You can’t do any of this in Pendo. 

- **[Open source](/product-os):** PostHog is open source. You can [view our source code](httpw://github.com/posthog), contribute changes, engage with the team in [our open source community](/slack), [view our roadmap](/roadmap) and create your own [apps](/apps) or features. Pendo is not open source and, as a result, you can only suggest new features to the support team.

### Product Analytics

> PostHog and Pendo both offer similar product analytics features at a surface level, but differ significantly when compared in greater depth. This is because PostHog and Pendo are ultimately built for different types of users. While PostHog is designed with engineers and technical users in mind, Pendo is intended more for marketers and UX designers. 

Reviewer: I don't feel like the comparison can hold up the "greater depth" comment atm. Outside of some specific features, what about PostHog provides greater depth?

- **[Formulas](/product-analytics):** In PostHog, a formula is exactly what it sounds like — a mathematical process you can use as part of your analysis. A simple example of a formula would be an equation to figure out a ratio or percentage, though advanced formulas can use more elaborate functions, such as `COS` and `SIN`. Pendo, however, doesn’t offer the ability to use formulas in analysis.

- **[SQL access](/docs/product-analytics/hogql):** SQL, which stands for Structured Query Language, is a programming language for interrogating data. While both Pendo and PostHog offer the ability to analyze data with ready-made insights and visualizations types, SQL enables you to go beyond this and examine data in any way. Only PostHog offers SQL access to your data; in Pendo you are limited to the existing graphs and widgets.

<h4 className="mb-0">Discover what's possible with <span className="text-red">product analytics</span></h4>
<TutorialsSlider slugs={[
  "/tutorials/churn-rate",
  "/tutorials/funnels",
  "/tutorials/api-get-insights-persons",
  "/tutorials/feature-retention",
  "/tutorials/next-steps-after-installing"
]} />

### In-app messages and prompts

> The ability to send in-app messages and display prompts is a central feature of Pendo, which focuses on empowering users to create such pop-ups and tooltips in their product easily. Additionally, you can see how adding such prompts impacts adoption and retention, or display interactive prompts to solicit user feedback. 
> 
> Just because such features are central to Pendo doesn’t mean they’re unique, however. PostHog also offers the ability to display in-app messages and interactive pop-ups through the use of [feature flag payloads](/docs/feature-flags/payloads) and [site apps](/tutorials/build-site-app).
> 
> The main difference between PostHog and Pendo here is that, because Pendo is intended for less technical users, it offers an interface which is simpler, but less powerful. You can easily create tooltips, announcement pop-ups and polls in Pendo, but not other types of prompt such as a Calendly integration. In PostHog, there are ready made apps for displaying pop-ups and tooltips, but the true power is in the ability to [build custom solutions](/tutorials/build-site-app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pendo is all about creating in-app messages, prompts, tooltips, measuring their impact on adoption and retention, and collecting feedback. But these aren't unique features – PostHog also supports in-app messages and interactive pop-ups through the use of [feature flag payloads](/docs/feature-flags/payloads) and [site apps](/tutorials/build-site-app).

The main difference between is, because Pendo is designed for less technical users, it offers an interface that is simpler, but less powerful. You can easily create tooltips, announcement pop-ups and polls in Pendo, but not other types of prompt such as a Calendly integration. 

PostHog has ready-made apps for displaying pop-ups and tooltips, but the true power is in the ability to [build custom solutions](/tutorials/build-site-app).
```

Below are some of the most popular ready-made apps which facilitate in-app messages in PostHog:

- **[Feedback Widget](/apps/feedback-widget)**: Displays a prompt with a text input, enabling users to write feedback messages which you can optionally sync to Slack, Zendesk or other tools using Zapier. 

- **[Notification Bar](/apps/notification-bar)**: Displays a customizable banner in your product, suitable for alerting users to important messages — like discounts, outages, or announcements.

- **[User Interviewer](/apps/user-interviews)**: Displays a prompt to users which match a filter or cohort, inviting them to schedule an online interview. Syncs with Calendly to make scheduling easy. 

- **[Pineapple Mode](/apps/pineapple-mode)**: Rains pineapples all over your product,  advancing the sense of chaos and entropy in the world. 

<h4 className="mb-0">Discover what's possible with <span className="text-red">PostHog apps</span></h4>
<TutorialsSlider slugs={[
  "/tutorials/build-site-app",
  "/tutorials/feedback-interviews-site-apps",
  "/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app",
  "/tutorials/how-to-connect-discord-to-posthog-with-zapier"
]} />

### Apps and integrations

> Both Pendo and PostHog have a wide selection of such apps and integrations available, for a number of popular platforms. Both also include integrations with tools such as Zapier, which enable you to move data to even more platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both Pendo and PostHog have a wide selection of apps and integration. Both also include integrations with tools such as Zapier, which enable you to move data to even more platforms.
```
